CLIENT-SPECIFICATION: clarify fallback to english (#4101)
tldr-pages/tldr: CLIENT-SPECIFICATION.md

## Language

Pages can be written in multiple languages. If a client has access to environment variables, it MUST use them derive the preferred user language as described in the next paragraphs. If not, then clients MUST make reasonable assumptions based on the information provided by the environment in which they operate (e.g. consulting `navigator.languages` in a browser, etc.).

The [`LANG` environment variable](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Locale-Environment-Variables.html) specifies the user preferred locale (in the form `ll[_CC][.encoding]`). The [`LANGUAGE` environment variable](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/The-LANGUAGE-variable.html) specifies a priority list of locales (in the form `l1:l2:...`) that can be used if the locale defined by `LANG` is not available. Both `LANG` and `LANGUAGE` may contain the values `C` or `POSIX`, which should be ignored.

In order to determine the display language, a client MUST:

> 1. Check the value of `LANG`.

Author: What about this?
```suggestion
1. Check the value of `LANG`. If not set, then skip to step 5.
```

Reviewer: I think it's not what is intended, since `LANGUAGE` (step 2) can contain the information, too.

Reviewer 2: Looking at https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/pull/4101#issuecomment-650645755, which demonstrates different values of `LANG` and `LANGUAGE` for `gettext`, it would seem that `LANG` must be set for `LANGUAGE` to have any effect.

Reviewer 3: @sbrl @MasterOdin ops, you're right guys, thanks for spotting this.

Regardless of the language selected through the above environment variables, clients MUST always attempt to fallback to English if the page does not exist in the requested languages. In this case clients SHOULD tell the user that the page does not exist in their requested language if it was not English. If the client supports a command-line argument for language, the client MUST only attempt to show the page in that language (clients MAY notify the user that a page is available in other languages if present).

LANGUAGE	| LANG	| Result
------------|-------|----------
`it:cz:de`	| `cz`	| `it`, `cz`, `de`, `en`
`it:de:fr`	| `cz`	| `it`, `de`, `fr`, `cz`, `en`
--			| `it`	| `it`, `en`

> `it,cz`		| --	| `en`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`it:cz`		| --	| `en`
```

Missed this.

Reviewer 3: Actually I'll just apply it myself since it's just a typo.

> The [`LANGUAGE` environment variable](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/The-LANGUAGE-variable.html) specifies a priority list of languages that a user wishes to read in. In absence of `LANG` and if this environment variable is present, a client MUST use the defined priority list to decide on the language of pages to display. If a page is not available in the user's preferred language, then a client MUST respect the user's priority list defined in the `LANGUAGE` variable, and MAY choose to notify the user that a page in their chosen language couldn't be found (perhaps along with a link to the [translations section of the contributing guide](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#translations)).

Author: With the updates below, this paragraph might need a bit of a rethink. It seems to be contradicting the below behaviour with the `LANG` and `LANGUAGE` environment variables.

(also, if `LANG` needs to be set to something other than an empty string or `C` to enable the `LANGUAGE` env  variable, what does one set it to?0

Reviewer 4: > With the changes made below, this paragraph might need a bit of a rethink. It seems to be contradicting the below behaviour with the `LANG` and `LANGUAGE` environment variables.
> 
> (also, if `LANG` needs to be set to something other than an empty string or `C` to enable the `LANGUAGE` env variable, what does one set it to?0

LANG should be set to your primary language, for example `en_US.UTF-8` or `nl_BE.UTF-8`

Author: Ah, I see - thanks @principis!

Anyway, I think this paragraph needs updating to reflect the actual behaviour with respect to the GNU spec.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`LANGUAGE` environment variable](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/The-LANGUAGE-variable.html) specifies a priority list of languages that a user wishes to read in. The `LANG` environment variable MUST be present for `LANGUAGE` to be used, and then `LANGUAGE` takes precendence over `LANG`. If `LANG` is set to a language not in `LANGUAGE`, then `LANG` should be appended to the end of the priority list. If a page is not available in the user's preferred language, then a client MUST respect the user's priority list defined in the `LANGUAGE` variable, and MAY choose to notify the user that a page in their chosen language couldn't be found (perhaps along with a link to the [translations section of the contributing guide](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#translations)).
```

Reviewer 3: I agree with @MasterOdin's suggestion here :+1:

> Regardless of the language selected through the above environment variables, clients MUST always attempt to fallback to English if the page does not exist in the requested languages. In this case clients REALLY SHOULD tell the user that the page does not exist in their requested language however if it was not English. If the client supports a command-line argument for language, the client MUST only attempt to show the page in that language (clients OUGHT TO notify the user that a page is available in other languages if present).

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest:

```suggestion
Regardless of the language selected through the above environment variables, clients MUST always attempt to fallback to English if the page does not exist in the requested languages. In this case clients SHOULD tell the user that the page does not exist in their requested language if it was not English. If the client supports a command-line argument for language, the client MUST only attempt to show the page in that language (clients MAY notify the user that a page is available in other languages if present).

```

- `REALLY SHOULD` -> `SHOULD`
- `OUGHT TO` -> `MAY`
- "however" not needed as that sentence already implies the exception.
- Added one line of spacing between text and the table below.

LANGUAGE | LANG | Result
---------|------|-------

> it,cz,de | cz   | it,cz,de,en

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`it:cz:de` | `cz`   | `it`, `cz`, `de`, `en`
```

I'd suggest changing this table to have correct values for `LANGUAGE` (using `:`) and also using `code blocks` like the above suggestion.

it,de,fr | cz   | it,de,fr,cz,en
  --     | it   | it,en
it,cz    | --   | en
  --     | --   | en

> Note: `LANG` or `LANGUAGE` may contain a value of `C` or `POSIX` and this should be treated as ignored.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note: `LANG` or `LANGUAGE` may contain the values `C` or `POSIX`, which should be ignored.

```

Clearer, also added one line of padding.

The [`LANGUAGE` environment variable](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/The-LANGUAGE-variable.html) specifies a priority list of languages that a user wishes to read in. In absence of `LANG` and if this environment variable is present, a client MUST use the defined priority list to decide on the language of pages to display. If a page is not available in the user's preferred language, then a client MUST respect the user's priority list defined in the `LANGUAGE` variable, and MAY choose to notify the user that a page in their chosen language couldn't be found (perhaps along with a link to the [translations section of the contributing guide](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#translations)).

> Regardless of the language selected through the above environment variables, clients SHOULD always attempt to fallback to English if the page does not exist in the requested languages. In this case clients REALLY SHOULD tell the user that the page does not exist in their requested language however if it was not English. If the client supports a command line argument for language, the client MUST only attempt to show the page in that language (clients OUGHT TO notify the user that a page is available in other languages if present).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of the language selected through the above environment variables, clients SHOULD always attempt to fallback to English if the page does not exist in the requested languages. In this case clients REALLY SHOULD tell the user that the page does not exist in their requested language however if it was not English. If the client supports a command-line argument for language, the client MUST only attempt to show the page in that language (clients OUGHT TO notify the user that a page is available in other languages if present).
```
`command-line` is the form we use in the other places.

> 

Reviewer 2: Taking from https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/issues/4092#issuecomment-647036499. Could be useful to include a table (similar to the platform & language section) to give examples of different variable configurations to make things as explicit as possible.

```suggestion
LANGUAGE | LANG | Result
---------|------|-------
it,cz,de | cz   | it,cz,de,en
it,de,fr | cz   | it,de,fr,cz,en
  --     | it   | it,en
it,cz    | --   | it,cz,en
  --     | --   | en

Note: `LANG` or `LANGUAGE` may contain a value of `C` or `POSIX` and this should be treated as ignored.
```

Reviewer 5: Should'nt the 4th case in this table have just '"en"' as the Result, since `LANGUAGE` should be ignored, if `LANG` is not set, or set to `"C"`, as described [here](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/The-LANGUAGE-variable.html#The-LANGUAGE-variable)?

Reviewer 2: Yup, updated. All the more reason to have a table as reading those docs is a pain.

Reviewer 5: Thanks for updating and adding this table. It's my first time collaborating here and i'm still learning how things are done.
